["Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThis handbook provides information on Texas Medicaid benefits, policies, and procedures for durable medical equipment (DME) suppliers and medical supply company providers. The handbook covers fee-for-service benefits, managed care carve-out services, and provider responsibilities. Key points include:\n\n* Report suspected child abuse or neglect\n* Comply with accepted medical community standards and occupational standards when providing healthcare services or items to Medicaid clients\n* Failure to comply can result in sanctions, including those specific to Texas Medicaid and those related to licensure and certification requirements.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe payment window reimbursement guidelines apply to most professional and outpatient diagnostic services that occur within a certain timeframe (three days for inpatient admissions) and are related to an inpatient hospital stay. These services will not be reimbursed separately from the inpatient hospital stay if rendered by the hospital or an entity wholly owned or operated by the hospital, unless one of three exceptions applies: services rendered in an inpatient setting, both parties being owned by a third party, or the hospital is not the sole owner of the entity.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nTo provide home health services through Texas Medicaid (Title XIX), DME providers must meet certain requirements. They must first become Medicare-certified, then enroll in Texas Medicaid as a specialized/custom wheeled mobility group provider with at least one qualified rehabilitation professional (QRP). QRP individuals must be certified by NRRTS or RESNA and enroll as a performing provider under a Specialized/Custom Wheeled Mobility group. Providers can enroll online through the Provider Enrollment and Management System (PEMS) on the TMHP website. Prior authorization is required for services, and claims submitted without prior authorization will not be reimbursed. The effective date of enrollment is when all Medicaid provider enrollment forms are received and approved by TMHP.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nTo provide services to Medicaid clients, suppliers must obtain prior authorization from TMHP's Home Health Services Prior Authorization Department after receiving notice of enrollment. Prior authorization cannot occur before Medicaid enrollment completion. Providers must receive their Medicaid certification and prior authorization number before submitting claims for payment. Additionally, newly enrolling and re-enrolling DME providers must obtain a surety bond that meets specific requirements, including a minimum amount of $50,000 per location, to participate in Texas Medicaid.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nTo enroll as a Medicaid DME provider in Texas, only one surety bond is required if you have multiple enrollment records for the same location. The bond must be:\n\n* Submitted on the State of Texas Medicaid Provider Surety Bond Form\n* Issued for 12 months\n* In effect on the date your application is submitted to TMHP\n* A continuous bond, not annual with specific dates\n* Accompanied by original signatures and a Power of Attorney document at time of enrollment or re-enrollment\n\nNote: The surety company may refer to Texas Department of Insurance (TDI) file #9212562912 or TDI link #132456 when filing the bond.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nDME providers must maintain a current surety bond to participate in Texas Medicaid. Each year, they must submit proof of continuation of the bond, including the bond number, principal's info, and surety company details, with original signatures from authorized representatives. The document can be submitted via the Provider Enrollment and Management System (PEMS).", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe benefit period for home health professional services is 60 days with a current plan of care. For DME and medical supplies, providers must complete a Home Health Services (Title XIX) DME/Medical Supplies Physician Order Form, which is valid for up to 6 months unless otherwise noted. Prior authorization may be granted for up to 6 months, but billing is done in one-month increments. Providers must retain records of orders, delivery slips, and invoices for a minimum of 5 years from the date of service or until any audit questions are resolved.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nTo qualify for home health services, Medicaid clients must meet three criteria:\n\n1. Have a medical need for services documented in their plan of care (POC).\n2. Receive services that meet their existing medical needs and can be safely provided at home.\n3. Obtain prior authorization from TMHP (Texas Medicaid Health Partnership) for most services.\n\nAdditionally, durable medical equipment providers must retain a copy of the completed Home Health Services (Title XIX) DME/Medical Supplies Physician Order Form signed by the treating physician.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nFor Medicaid clients with retroactive eligibility, prior authorization requests must be submitted after the \"add date\" and before submitting a claim. For services provided during the retroactive period, prior authorization is required within 95 days of the add date. For services provided on or after the add date, prior authorization is required within three business days. Providers are strongly encouraged to frequently verify client eligibility through TexMedConnect, Medicaid Client Portal for Providers, or AIS.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nPrior authorization for some medical supplies and most Durable Medical Equipment (DME) must be obtained from TMHP within 3 business days of the Department of Social Services (DOS). Providers can submit prior authorization requests on the TMHP website, including forms for external insulin pumps, wheelchair seating assessments, and wound therapy systems. Refer to subsection 5.5.1 in \"Section 5: Fee-for-Service Prior Authorizations\" (Vol. 1, General Information) for more information on mandatory documentation requirements.", "Here's a concise summary:\n\nFor Medicaid reimbursement, prior authorization is required when private insurance is primary and Medicaid is secondary. However, if Medicare is primary and Medicaid is secondary, no prior authorization is needed for Medicaid to pay coinsurance or deductible only. Prior authorization requests must include the Medicare Remittance Advice Notice (MRAN) and be submitted within 30 days of Medicare's final disposition. For Medicaid-only services, prior authorization is required within three business days of the date of service. Additional documentation may be requested if information is incomplete or medical necessity is lacking; providers have two weeks to submit this documentation.", "Here's a concise summary:\n\nThe TMHP Home Health Services toll-free number is 1-800-925-8957. For DME prior authorization information, refer to Subsection 2.2.2.2 of this handbook. Additionally, Medicaid eligibility is verified on a monthly basis and does not guarantee payment, even with prior authorization.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nTexas Medicaid defines Durable Medical Equipment (DME) as medical equipment or appliances that are ordered by a physician for use in the home to correct or alleviate a client's disability, condition, or illness. The Texas Health and Human Services Commission (HHSC) has the authority to determine what constitutes DME for Medicaid benefits. To be reimbursed for DME services, clients must meet certain criteria, including being eligible for home health benefits, having a medically necessary need for the equipment or supply, and having it be safe for use in the home.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nTo submit claims and appeals for Durable Medical Equipment (DME) purchases over $2,500 or total billed amount exceeding $2,500 for multiple items, the DME provider and client must sign and date the DME Certification and Receipt Form on the TMHP website. The form must include the date received, item name, receiver/monitor name if applicable, and signatures from both parties. Providers must maintain a completed copy in the client's record and submit the form to TMHP for claims and appeals. Failure to submit the form may result in claim payment recoupment or return of incomplete forms.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nDME providers must maintain detailed records of DME/Medical Supplies deliveries, including:\n\n* Delivery slips\n* Invoices\n* Signed and dated DME Certification and Receipt Forms\n\nThese records must be retained for at least 5 years or until audit-related issues are resolved. The documentation must show that the equipment was used for medical/therapeutic purposes and was supplied through an enrolled DME provider, as prescribed by the client's physician.\n\nAdditionally, DME must meet certain requirements to qualify for reimbursement under Home Health Services, including being delivered as prescribed by the physician.", "Here is a concise summary of the table or text chunk:\n\nThe Durable Medical Equipment (DME) handbook outlines requirements for DME, medical supplies, and nutritional products. To be eligible, equipment must: 1) meet the client's needs, 2) have proper training and instruction provided to the client or caregiver, 3) be medically necessary and prior authorized, 4) meet the client's existing medical needs, 5) be safe for use in the home, and 6) come from an enrolled DME provider. Additionally, if equipment is found to be inappropriate for a client's condition within the first six months, it will not be eligible for an upgrade unless there has been a significant change in the client's condition.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nAll durable medical equipment (DME) purchased for a Medicaid client becomes their property upon receipt. This includes equipment not prior authorized or reimbursed in certain situations, such as delivery before physician signature date or more than 3 business days before authorization. HHSC will determine if the equipment should be rented, purchased, replaced, repaired, or modified based on the client's needs and circumstances. Purchase is justified when the estimated duration of need exceeds the reasonable purchase cost or it's more practical to buy. If a provider can't deliver prior authorized equipment, they must allow the client to obtain it from another provider.", "Here is a concise summary of the table/text chunk:\n\nThe Durable Medical Equipment, Medical Supplies, and Nutritional Products Handbook outlines reimbursement rules for items/services. Items are reimbursed at the lesser of:\n\n* Provider's billed charges\n* Published fee determined by HHSC\n* Manual pricing (based on MSRP or provider's documented invoice cost)\n\nTo consider purchase or rental, providers must submit documentation of either MSRP/AWP or invoice cost. Handwritten alterations to invoices render them invalid.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nModifications to assistive equipment within the first 6 months after delivery are considered part of the purchase price, except for push-rim activated power assist wheelchairs (PAPAW). Modifications require prior authorization if changes occur in the client's needs, capabilities, or physical/mental status. Adjustments do not require supplies and are also considered part of the purchase price within the first 6 months. Repairs to client-owned equipment may be prior authorized with medical necessity documentation, and technician fees are included in the repair cost.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nA Durable Medical Equipment (DME) repair request must include an estimated cost list and meet certain criteria, such as the item's age and repair cost. Rental equipment may be provided while purchased equipment is being repaired. Repairs will not be authorized if the equipment has been abused or neglected by the client or their caregiver.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nPrior authorization is required for most Durable Medical Equipment (DME) and supplies provided through Home Health Services. To request prior authorization, providers must submit a completed and signed \"Home Health Services (Title XIX) DME/Medical Supplies Physician Order Form\" to the TMHP Home Health Services Prior Authorization Department. The form must include procedure codes and quantities for services requested. A copy of the completed form must be maintained by the DME provider and the ordering physician's original copy must be kept in the client's medical record.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nTo obtain prior authorization for home health services and medical supplies, providers must submit requirements electronically and retain a copy in the client's medical record. The physician's signature on the order form is only valid for 90 days before service initiation. Prior authorization must be obtained within three business days of providing the service. To ensure a determination of medical necessity and avoid denials, physicians should provide accurate and complete information supporting the request, including diagnostic information and the client's overall health status.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe American Medical Association's Durable Medical Equipment (DME) Handbook outlines guidelines for replacing purchased DME. Replacement is considered when:\n\n1. The client's condition changes significantly, making the current equipment no longer suitable.\n2. The equipment becomes non-functional and cannot be repaired or is not cost-effective to repair.\n3. The equipment is lost or irreparably damaged.\n\nTo request replacement, a police or fire report (if applicable) and measures to prevent reoccurrence must be submitted. Additionally, payment may be authorized for repairing purchased DME, but maintenance of rental equipment remains the supplier's responsibility.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe Home Health Durable Medical Equipment (DME) and Supplies Exceptional Circumstances provision allows Texas Medicaid to consider covering medically necessary DME and supplies not currently covered, for individuals aged 21+ under exceptional circumstances. This is governed by Title 42 CFR \u00a7440.70 and Title 1 TAC \u00a7354.1039.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nTo request prior authorization for home health DME and supplies under the Exceptional Circumstances provision, providers must submit a written notice to TMHP with specific information. The notice should include: (1) completed forms signed by the prescribing physician, (2) the client's diagnosis, medical needs, and reasons why requested items are necessary, and (3) a clear description of the requested DME or supply.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe table describes required documentation for durable medical equipment (DME) or supply requests to Texas Medicaid Health Plans (TMHP). This includes:\n\n* Manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP) or invoice documenting provider cost\n* Letters of Medical Necessity (LOMN) from the client's prescribing physician and other clinical professionals, explaining alternative measures and supplies tried and failed, or ruled out.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nTMHP requires specific procedures for reimbursing home health DME and supplies under Exceptional Circumstances. To be eligible, providers must use the most appropriate procedure code, obtain prior authorization approval, and meet certain criteria for medical supply benefits, including:\n\n* A signed and dated physician order form with procedure codes and quantities\n* Prior authorization request within 3 business days of providing supplies to the client (if required)\n* Maintenance of completed forms on file by both the provider and the ordering physician", "Here's a concise summary:\n\nProviders must retain records of each delivery of medical supplies to clients, including signed receipts from clients or caregivers, or dated carrier tracking documents. The documentation must include the client's name, address, itemized list of goods with quantities and descriptions, and a tracking number. The records must also reflect the exact quantity of units delivered (e.g., 300 diapers), not just the package size.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe guidelines for durable medical equipment, medical supplies, and nutritional products emphasize that claims must accurately reflect delivery quantities (e.g., one box of 200 wipes, not individual wipes). Claims must also be submitted within one business day before or after the date of service. The ordering physician must document medical supplies as medically necessary in the client's plan of care or on a specific order form. Additionally, all records and claims must be retained for at least five years and may be subject to retrospective review.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe table or text does not contain a traditional table, but rather a series of instructions and references related to client eligibility and supplying medical equipment and supplies. Key points include:\n\n* Providers must verify client eligibility before providing supplies\n* The Date of Service (DOS) is the date on which supplies are delivered to the client\n* Providers must maintain signed and dated records supporting documentation for non-billed items\n* References are provided for further information, including the Home Health Services Physician Order Form, Children's Services Handbook, and Claims Filing section.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nTMHP requires prior authorization for most medical supplies, which must be used for therapeutic purposes and supplied through an enrolled DME provider, as per the client's Plan of Care (POC). However, some medical supplies do not require prior authorization, but providers must retain a copy of the completed POC or Home Health Services Physician Order Form in the client's file. These forms are valid for up to 6 months unless otherwise specified by the physician. For a list of exceptions, refer to subsection 2.2.30.", "Here's a concise summary:\n\nHome Health Services (Title XIX) allows clients with ongoing needs to receive up to six months of prior authorizations for expendable medical supplies when requested on a specific form. Providers must deliver supplies as ordered and obtain a new physician-ordered form every 60 days. Prior authorization requests can be made up to 60 days in advance, and records must be retained for at least five years.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nA client has the right to change DME/medical supply providers, but must notify TMHP and provide a new physician order form. Prior authorization for the new provider can only be issued within 3 business days of receiving the necessary documents. Additionally, digitized speech devices are benefits under Texas Medicaid Title XIX Home Health Services, which allow individuals with expressive speech language disorders to communicate electronically. Providers must use specific procedure codes when billing for these services.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nA synthesized speech device uses algorithms to translate user input into speech, allowing users to create custom messages. Users can access the device through direct physical contact (keyboard or touch screen) and indirect selection techniques like joysticks, head mice, or scanning devices. Providers must use procedure code E2508 for devices that require physical contact and E2510 for those with multiple methods of message formulation and access.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe reimbursement for an ACD system includes, but is not limited to: the ACD system itself, basic software (excluding software purchased to enable a client-owned computer/PDA), batteries, battery charger, power supplies, interface cables, interconnects, sensors, moisture guard, adapters, and adequate memory for future expansion. Additionally, reimbursement covers basic operational training and manufacturer's warranty.", "Here is a concise summary of the table/text chunk:\n\nThe Texas Medicaid program covers ACD System Accessories if certain criteria are met and medical necessity is documented in an SLP evaluation. Eligible accessories include access devices (e.g., optical head pointers, joysticks), gross motor devices (e.g., switches, buttons), fine motor/head control devices (e.g., laser pointers), and mounting systems to attach ACD systems or access devices to wheelchairs or tables. Prior authorization is required for these accessories, and providers must use procedure codes E2512 and E2599 when billing.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe table provides guidelines for reimbursement and prior authorization of Assistive Communication Device (ACD) systems. Specific policies are outlined for:\n\n* Carrying cases: considered with supporting documentation, limited to one every three years, and require procedure code E2599 and modifier U1.\n* Nonwarranty repairs: prior authorization possible using procedure code V5336 with manufacturer documentation explaining why the repair is not covered by warranty.\n* Trial period: required before purchasing an ACD system to ensure client needs are met; can be obtained through rental, school setting, or another determined setting. In some cases, a trial period is not required when replacing an existing ACD system.\n\nAdditionally, rental of all components necessary for use of the device during the trial period may be prior authorized.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe purchase or replacement of an Augmentative Communication Device (ACD) system requires prior authorization under certain circumstances. To qualify, the client must have sufficient experience with the requested ACD system and a physician's order form must be completed. Prior authorization for replacement may be granted within three years of purchase if there is a significant change in the client's condition, the device is no longer functional and cannot be repaired, or it has been three years since purchase and the equipment is no longer repairable.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe table discusses computer software and devices related to Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) systems. The key points are:\n\n* Software that enables a client's computer or PDA to function as an AAC system may be covered, but requires procedure code E2511.\n* Prior authorization may be considered for ACD software if it is more cost-effective than an ACD system.\n* Non-covered items include printer and wireless internet access devices.\n* Specialized evaluations are required for complex rehabilitation technology, such as augmentative communication devices.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nPrior authorization is required for Alternative Communication Devices (ACD) systems provided through Home Health Services. To request prior authorization, physicians must provide information supporting medical necessity, including accurate diagnostic info, diagnosis or condition causing speech impairment, client limitations, and why the prescribed ACD system is most effective. Additionally, documentation is needed that the client can operate the device, and an evaluation by a licensed Speech-Language Pathologist (SLP) with other disciplines must be conducted to inform the prescription.", "Here is a concise summary of the table/text chunk:\n\nTo obtain prior authorization for an Augmentative and Alternative Communication (ACD) system, a request must include specifications for the system, necessary accessories, and therapies/training. The evaluation process should involve occupational or physical therapists to address seating/postural needs and motor skills. A licensed Speech-Language Pathologist (SLP) must conduct an assessment, signed and dated before the physician's prescription date, which includes documentation of medical necessity, client medical status, current expressive speech-language disorder, and recommended treatment plan.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe presented language skills section of the durable medical equipment, medical supplies, and nutritional products handbook outlines the essential information for an Augmentative and Alternative Communication (ACD) device system. It includes descriptions of the client's current communication limitations, therapy options ruled out, and rationale for the recommended ACD system. The summary also covers client abilities to use the system, integration into daily life, training plan, speech-language goals, anticipated system changes, and assistance/support needed to maintain the system.", "Here is a concise summary of the provided text:\n\nA licensed Speech-Language Pathologist (SLP) must be financially independent of the Assistive Communication Device (ACD) system manufacturer or vendor. The SLP's assessment should consider various factors such as speech and language skills, interactional/behavioral and social abilities, motivation to communicate, residential settings, and growth potential.\n\nRegarding Durable Medical Equipment (DME), bath and bathroom equipment is considered for reimbursement if it serves a therapeutic purpose, treats an identified medical condition, and is required due to physical limitations. Bath seats are only approved for clients older than 1 year or weighing more than 30 pounds. The handbook also notes the process for considering exceptions under Title XIX Home Health Services for clients 21 years or older.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe text discusses hand-held shower wands and bath equipment, specifically bath/shower chairs, tub stools/benches, and tub transfer benches. A hand-held shower wand with attachments requires prior authorization only if the client owns or meets criteria for one of these bathing aids. Providers must use procedure code E1399 to bill for these items. Bathing aids are limited to one every five years. Custom bath/shower chairs may be authorized separately from commode chairs.", "Here's a concise summary of the text:\n\nA Level 1 Group device is considered if the client:\n\n* Cannot stand independently or has difficulty standing\n* Has limited mobility in upper or lower extremities, making it hard to enter/exit shower/tub\n* Can ambulate short distances with or without assistive devices\n\nLevel 2 Group devices are considered for clients who:\n\n* Have good upper body stability but impaired functional ambulation (e.g. lower body paralysis)\n* Are nonambulatory\n\nTo bill for these devices, providers must use procedure code E0240 and a modifier (TF for Level 2).", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe Level 3 Group requires trunk, head, or neck support, or positioning to accommodate conditions like spasticity or frequent seizures. Providers must use code E0240 with modifier TG when billing. Prior authorization may be granted for custom or mobile bath/shower chairs if clients meet criteria and do not have a commode chair. Additionally, tub stools/benches (E0245), tub transfer benches (E0247), and heavy-duty tub transfer benches (E0248) may be authorized for clients who meet Level 1 or 2 criteria.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe table outlines limitations on bathroom equipment replacements for clients with decreased functional mobility who require assistive devices to self-toilet or bathe safely. Non-fixed toilet rails are limited to 2 per 5 years, while raised toilet seats and bathtub rails are limited to 1 per 5 years. Some equipment may be approved for prior authorization if the client meets certain criteria. Procedure codes E0243, E0244, and E0246 apply when billing for these items.", "Here is a concise summary of the table and text chunk:\n\nA toilet seat lift mechanism is designed to assist individuals with severe arthritis or neuromuscular disease to stand up from a sitting position. To qualify for prior authorization, clients must meet specific criteria: have severe arthritis or neuromuscular disease, have the device as part of their treatment plan, be able to ambulate after standing, and be completely unable to stand up from an ordinary chair in their home. Prior authorization will only be given for one type of toilet assist device (mechanical or powered), unless there is a documented change in the client's condition that renders the mechanical device unusable.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe Texas Medicaid program covers toilet seat lift mechanisms, commode chairs, and footrests as benefits, but only if they meet specific criteria. Toilet seat lifts must operate smoothly, be controlled by the client, and assist in standing up and sitting down without assistance. Commode chairs and footrests may be considered benefits depending on the client's level of need, and documentation is required to support medical necessity for customized commode chairs or attachments.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nA Level 2 Mobile Commode Chair requires prior authorization if the client has a bowel program and needs a combination commode/bath chair, but does not already have a bath chair. A Level 3 Custom Commode Chair requires prior authorization if the client has a medical condition that prevents them from supporting their head, neck, or trunk without assistance. The chair must be stationary or mobile with fixed or removable attachments for arm, head, neck, and/or trunk support.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nAn Extra-Wide and Heavy-Duty Commode Chair is designed for clients who weigh 300 pounds or more and have a width requirement of at least 23 inches. It requires prior authorization for clients with Level 1-3 needs. The procedure code is E0168, with modifiers TF (mobile) or TG (custom).", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nA Commode Chair with Integrated Seat Lift is designed to assist individuals with severe mobility impairments, such as arthritis or neuromuscular diseases, to stand up from a sitting position. To be eligible, the client must meet specific criteria, including being unable to stand from regular chairs and having ambulation capabilities for short distances. This device requires prior authorization and has a five-year replacement limit. Procedure code E0170 or E0171 is used when billing.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nA foot rest is used to support feet during commode chair use, particularly for individuals with paraplegia or quadriplegia who have contractures in their lower extremities. Prior authorization may be required if certain criteria are met. The procedure code E0175 should be used when billing for a foot rest.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe purchase or rental of bath lifts is subject to specific limitations, with purchases allowed only once every five years and rentals limited to one per month. There are two types of bath lifts: outside-the-tub lifts that move clients from bed or chair to bath, and inside-the-tub lifts that lower and raise clients into the tub. Providers must use procedure code E0625 with modifiers when billing for bath lifts. Bath lifts must be free-standing and not attached to the floor, walls, or ceiling. Hydraulic and electric baths lifts are available, with hydraulic lifts suitable for clients who cannot assist in transfers and electric lifts used when hydraulic lifts are not sufficient.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThere are four levels of bath lifts, categorized by weight capacity (up to 300 pounds or greater than 300 pounds) and whether they are outside the tub or in-tub. The levels include:\n\n* Level 1: Outside the tub lift for clients up to 300 pounds\n* Level 2: In-tub lift for clients up to 300 pounds\n* Level 3: Bariatric out-of-tub lift designed for clients greater than 300 pounds\n* Level 4: Bariatric in-tub lift designed for clients greater than 300 pounds\n\nTo be eligible for a bath lift, the client must have an inability to transfer independently, require maximum assistance from a caregiver, or have a bathroom that meets the manufacturer's recommended dimensions. Procedure codes and modifiers are provided for billing purposes.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nPrior authorization is required for all bath and bathroom equipment, including accessories, modifications, adjustments, replacements, and repairs, except for certain rentals. Modifications, adjustments, or repairs to delivered equipment are not eligible for prior authorization if found to be inappropriate within six months after delivery, unless there is a significant change in the client's condition documented by a physician. To request prior authorization, documentation must include diagnostic information, client demographics, home assessment, and anticipated changes in needs.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nToilet Seat Lifts: To be eligible, documentation from a physician, physical therapist, or occupational therapist is required, including an assessment of the client's current function, reasons why non-mechanical devices won't meet their needs, and how the lift mechanism will improve their function. The document must also list specific activities of daily living that can be performed with the device.\n\nBlood Pressure Devices: In-home use requires a prescription from a physician and is medically necessary. Manual blood pressure devices do not require prior authorization for purchase when provided for certain diagnosis codes (listed in table) and are billed using procedure code A4660.", "Here is a concise summary of the table and text:\n\nAn automated blood pressure device can be purchased without prior authorization when used for specific diagnosis codes listed below. The device inflates the cuff manually or automatically, displays results on a small screen, and requires procedure code A4670 for billing. Additionally, repair or replacement of equipment may be considered with documentation, using procedure code A4660.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe table lists various codes related to manual and automated blood pressure devices, including their anticipated lifespan of at least one year. Prior authorization is required in certain situations:\n\n* Replacing equipment within the same year as purchase\n* Equipment failure or damage due to an event (e.g., fire) that requires replacement before the end of the anticipated lifespan\n\nProviders must submit documentation supporting medical necessity for these replacements, including a police or fire report when applicable.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nHospital-grade blood pressure devices are prescribed by a physician for self-monitoring in the home setting. These devices have features such as memory for recording, alarm systems for abnormal readings, and continuous monitoring with motion artifact correction. Documentation of medical necessity must be maintained in the client's record. Providers must use procedure code A9279 with modifier U1 when billing. The equipment is expected to last at least 3 years or until it becomes non-functional and unrepairable. Additionally, hospital-grade devices are a benefit for clients under 12 months old if they cannot use standard automated devices.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nThe rental or purchase of hospital-grade blood pressure devices for clients 12 months and older is considered a benefit on a case-by-case basis, requiring supporting documentation of medical necessity. The device may be used to treat various conditions, including hypertension, heart disease, kidney disease, and other cardiovascular-related issues. Rental costs apply toward the purchase price. Reimbursement for replacement parts (cuffs) or repairs requires prior authorization.", "Here's a concise summary of the text:\n\nPrior authorization is required to rent or purchase hospital-grade blood pressure devices, and HHSC will determine the equipment needed based on the client's needs, use duration, and equipment age. To obtain prior authorization, documentation must show medical necessity for self-monitoring, including diagnoses, symptoms, lab results, and a caregiver who can accept responsibility for training. Prior approval is granted for up to 6 months for rental purposes when medical necessity is demonstrated.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThe recertification process for durable medical equipment (DME) requires current documentation supporting medical necessity and compliance with use. A hospital-grade blood pressure device may be prior authorized if the client meets certain criteria: age 12 months or older, and documentation shows medical necessity for ongoing self-monitoring that cannot be met by an automated device.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nTexas Medicaid covers replacement of blood pressure cuffs and equipment repairs under certain circumstances, such as irreparable damage and prior authorization. The program also covers internal and external osteogenic stimulators for skeletally-mature individuals (21+ years old), which promote healthy bone growth and repair through low-intensity electrical stimulation.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nUltrasonic and electrical bone growth stimulators promote healthy bone growth and repair through low-intensity ultrasound waves or electrical pulses. Texas Medicaid covers these devices for DME providers in home settings (noninvasive) and ambulatory surgical centers (invasive). The devices are beneficial for treating nonunion of fractures, spinal fusion surgery adjuncts, or congenital pseudarthrosis. Nonunion is diagnosed when a fracture fails to heal completely after 6 months, with no progressive signs of healing for at least 3 months.", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nPrior authorization is required for procedure codes E0747, E0748, E0749, and E0760 for bone growth stimulators. To request authorization, an ordering physician must submit a completed, signed, and dated Home Health Services (Title XIX) DME/Medical Supplies Physician Ordering Form prior to requesting approval. The form must be kept in the client's file by both the physician and the DME provider. Complete and accurate documentation is necessary to support medical necessity for the bone growth stimulator, and all documentation is subject to retrospective review.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nFor prior authorization of an external electromagnetic bone stimulator (procedure codes E0747 and E0748), documentation must show one of the following conditions:\n\n* Nonunions, failed fusions, or congenital pseudarthrosis with no signs of healing for 3+ months\n* Delayed unions of fractures at high-risk sites\n* Spinal application: failed fusions, grade II or worse spondylolisthesis, multiple-level fusion with extensive bone grafting, or other risk factors\n\nAdditionally, documentation must confirm that the patient's condition meets specific criteria, including serial radiographs showing no progressive healing and adequate immobilization.", "Here is a concise summary of the documentation requirements for Invasive Electrical Bone Growth Stimulators:\n\nPrior authorization is required for surgically implanted bone growth stimulators (E0749) in situations where:\n\n* Nonunion of long bones has been confirmed through serial radiographs taken at least 3 months apart.\n* Failed joint fusion has occurred, with a minimum of 3 months since the original surgery.\n* Congenital pseudoarthrosis exists.\n* Spinal fusion is being performed as an adjunct to prevent pseudoarthrosis in high-risk patients or for multiple-level fusions (3+ vertebrae).\n\nPlease let me know if you'd like me to summarize anything else!", "Here is a concise summary:\n\nFor prior authorization of an external, low-intensity ultrasound bone growth stimulator device, documentation is required showing:\n\n* Nonunion of a fracture in a skeletally mature person, with radiographs taken at least 90 days apart and showing no clinically significant healing.\n* The fracture must not be related to a tumor or be a fresh, closed, or grade I open tibial diaphyseal or distal radius fracture.\n\nClaims for professional services related to bone growth stimulation may be reimbursed if the claim includes:\n\n* Documentation of medical necessity as outlined in subsection 2.2.8.2.\n* Submission of the corresponding bone growth stimulator device within 95 days of the procedure date, along with an evaluation and management (E/M) procedure code for monitoring treatment effectiveness.", "Here is a concise summary of the text:\n\nThis section refers to the \"Breastfeeding Support Services\" in the Gynecological, Obstetrics, and Family Planning Title XIX Services Handbook (Vol. 2). No specific information about breastfeeding support services is provided in this chunk, but it appears to be a reference or pointer to the relevant section for more details."]